[Music]
hi my name is Marquez Brownlee and I
have not paid for electricity
in a year I have a bunch of electrical
appliances computers game console TVs
air conditioning and I drive an electric
car to and from work every single day
and charge it home zero dollar bill so I
know I had a lot of questions about how
this stuff worked how much it cost how
much it generated a whole bunch of that
stuff before I got started and now I
finally have all the answers
let's get into it
so I have had solar panels on my roof at
home for the past 12 months now and I
waited this long specifically because
now I've seen all four seasons and I've
observed a wide variety of performance
and I've run all the numbers and I have
a lot of thoughts about them so I want
to share them so first of all for those
familiar there are a lot of options for
solar systems at home I like that
they're called solar systems too but
there are a lot of different companies
who make solar systems to power all the
electrical needs of a home including an
electric car so I know I wanted to do
this for a while since the whole point
for me was to be able to drive electric
for the foreseeable future and actually
be able to know that the energy is
coming from a sustainable Source the Sun
but first it's actually important to
understand that a big part a big part of
this solar system is batteries as well
so a normal house is connected to the
electrical grid and whenever something
in the house whether it's a light bulb
or a computer or an appliance calls for
electricity it pulls from the grid and
and Spins up a meter on the side of the
house that tallies how much you've
pulled then at the end of the month you
get billed for how much electricity
you've used great now if you just add
solar panels to this house when the sun
shines during the day on those tiles it
can use that electricity to directly
power things in the house now of course
if it's cloudy or if you have a bunch of
stuff on all at once and the demand is
more than the power from the Sun is
providing then it'll pull the rest of
what it needs from the grid and spin the
meter as well but most importantly as
soon as the sun goes down the
electricity generated goes to zero and
it just so happens that most people come
home from work as the sun is going down
and that's when they turn on all the
lights and do the laundry and charge the
car Etc so you're still going to be
pulling from the grid for most stuff now
that's actually fine for most people
because if the goal which a lot of
people's goal is is to have a zero
dollar electricity bill then this can
actually be accomplished because the
power company will hopefully depending
on where you live but ideally be running
something called net metering so what
this means is when the Sun Shines on the
roof and excess electricity is being
generated because nobody's home the
house actually spins the electrical
meter backwards as it sends extra
electricity back to the grid then when
the Sun goes down and you get home and
use a bunch of electricity from the grid
the meter spins back forwards and so
ideally the total usage is zero net zero
that's how you end up with the zero
dollar electricity bill which is super
cool but what if you want to sort of
graduate to the next level of
sustainability what if you want to be
completely independent of the grid
totally Off the Grid
well that's when batteries come in so
add battery storage to this system and
now the loop is complete so when the sun
shines during the day and you're not
home it fills up the batteries
effectively storing Sunshine energy and
then when you get home and the sun goes
down you can keep using that extra solar
energy that you stored with all the
electrical needs that you have until the
next morning when the sun comes out
again and starts filling up those
batteries again so with a system like
this you can theoretically not just have
a zero dollar power bill but never
actually pull from the Grid at all
you're completely self-sustainable you
never have to worry about a power outage
ever again you won't even know if a
power outage happens that is the Off the
Grid dream theoretically anyway at the
beginning of this process that was my
goal so there's a lot of different
options for solar system setups with
different solar tile manufacturers and
different battery manufacturers and
different companies that will install
all these things and there's a 1000
different combos that you could piece
together with different companies with
different offers in your area to make
something that works I kind of went with
kind of a crazy but also a made sense
solution which is just one company for
everything which would be Tesla so it is
a Tesla solar roof Tesla power walls for
batteries and then the Tesla app to
monitor and control everything and
really the main reason I went this route
was for Simplicity and integration this
I paid a price premium for this this was
not the cheapest option you can spec a
much cheaper combo of solar panels and
batteries and things like that
but just to have everything on the same
page and have everything talking to each
other seamlessly this made the most
sense so then once I decided to go with
Tesla then the other choice you might
have heard about is either solar panels
bolted to the roof or these actual solar
tiles which are new roof tiles that are
actually hundreds of tiny solar panels
themselves all interconnected to make a
normal looking roof that's actually a
giant solar panel and that is the one
that I went for and this is why I say
this is this was a crazy option because
I I did not actually need a new roof
most people who go with the solar tiles
option would either have an old roof
that needs replacing soon or they're
like about to build a new house and this
will be the new roof that they put on it
I wasn't in either of those situations
but also this was the way to get by far
the largest total array with the most
coverage with as many pitches as my roof
has and also aesthetically it looks
really good too I gotta say there's carb
appeal either way I make my decision I'm
going with the solar roof I'm going
Tesla's full integrated setup
from there
not gonna lie it is quite a process
there is a lot of uh of paperwork and
Hoops to jump through also with Tesla's
they've been kind of in and out of
reliability like over the years they've
been on and off with actually making
this product they've paused
installations for a while it was briefly
canceled and then it came back and there
were supply chain issues I remember
reading about all this and I was kind of
worried uh but for whatever reason when
I ordered which was in 2021 basically
everything went perfectly smooth as well
as it could have gone you get assigned a
a Tesla advisor just like for your
project for your solar project they walk
you through the whole process from the
paperwork with the town from beginning
to end so there was an ordering process
inspection a measuring process quotes
you know filling out paperwork with the
town you actually when you're first
trying to get an estimate you actually
submit your address and they go look on
Google Images and look at your roof with
satellite imagery and give you an
initial quote then once you're locked in
and you decide you want to go through
with it they'll actually come to your
home with professionals and actually
measure it and then give you a precise
real quote and then start to order all
the materials you eventually get to the
point where you get an install date you
start scheduling things out and then
they come through with all the boxes of
solar panels and they took up my whole
driveway for a couple days there are
people who have actually walked through
this entire process in great detail I'll
try to link a good one below on YouTube
but at the end of the day
for me the process I started when I
signed the purchase agreement which was
in November 2021 and finished with the
activation of the system in July 2022 so
eight months
but now that it's done uh we get to nerd
out about the numbers sorry in advance
to anyone who doesn't like numbers I
feel like that's really the only way to
explain how good it is and what's
happening with them so there's about to
be a lot of them let's get into it so
first of all the specs right so this is
a
29.313 kilowatt solar array size your
boy's got a big roof and then there are
three power wall threes which totals 40
and a half kilowatt hours and then this
is the Tesla app where all of the
learnings and all the numbers happen
when the system first got activated I
just remember like seeing it light up in
the app for the first time the numbers
jump up and just kind of you just kind
of get I could stare at the app for a
while like I could really get lost in
the numbers maybe it's just because I'm
a numbers person but there's a lot going
on and that's it was exciting to see it
all in real time and learn a lot of
stuff so I think the app is really well
done and it lets you visualize how much
energy the solar array is currently
capturing how much energy the home is
using and the state of charge and power
output or input of the powerwall
batteries and then of course anything
happening with the electro grid so you
can see at this exact moment in time on
a sunny morning in July the panels are
bringing in seven kilowatts of power
five of which are powering the house the
last two of which are going into the
power walls which are 38 full and it's
not touching the Grid at all there's
already a lot of terms being thrown
around here here's a good way of
thinking about it kilowatts is a measure
of power so one kilowatt is a thousand
Watts a kilowatt hour though is a unit
of energy collected so a Tesla Model S
battery for example is a 100 roughly 100
kilowatt hours and so if that battery
were to Output a hundred kilowatts for
an hour then it would be at zero so for
my setup the power wall three each one
is about 13 and a half kilowatt hours
each so that totals forty and a half
kilowatt hours since I have three and
they support a maximum power output in
or out of 15 and a half kilowatts and
then the solar system being 29.3
kilowatts means that basically it seems
like the theoretical maximum of the
electricity that can be collected at any
one time is 29.3 kilowatts but as you're
about to see a little bit later that
number may or may not be accurate either
way just hanging out in the Tesla app
for a while which you do a lot for the
first few weeks I learned a lot I
learned a lot about what takes a lot of
energy what takes a little bit of energy
some of it which did surprise me I also
learned that sort of the basic like
existence level for this house is like 4
100 watts of power just because things
are plugged in even if every light is
off it just sort of sits around 400
watts but you know charging a phone or
turning on a light or something like
that basically doesn't make a dent at
all it doesn't show up in the app uh
turning on a TV might only take about
100 Watts uh or 0.1 kilowatts a computer
can pull three to 500 watts if it's
taking a lot of power but surprisingly
the big spikes come from the microwave
and the toaster for sure but the two
absolute biggest draws of electricity in
this house by far and I think probably
with a lot of others are number two air
conditioning
and number one buy a country mile is
charging the electric car
I think the best way to look at this is
actually by Seasons so like I said this
system got activated in July so in the
middle of the summer so typical summer
day in New Jersey is pretty awesome for
a solar customer the days are long we
get a lot of sun it's great this is what
a summer day looks like in the app and
this is a pretty good day for solar so
you can see the sunrise is around 6 a.m
the peak is around noon and then this
drop off till sunset around 8 to 9 p.m
it's a lot of sun and on this day it
generated a ridiculous 260 kilowatt
hours of electricity not all days are
going to look like perfect curves like
this by the way in fact the previous day
was pretty cloudy so you can see it only
generated 65 kilowatt hours the next
previous was better again but yeah a
typical summer day you know get around
200 kilowatt hours from the Sun and then
I think this view is the most helpful it
looks kind of wild at first but you can
quickly tell how to read it it's
basically how much power the house is
taking and then where it's getting that
power from so over overnight you can see
these spikes from the house are where
I'm pulling from the grid this is
actually just air conditioning overnight
then when the sun comes out and the day
heats up and the air conditioner turns
on the lights and the appliances
everything comes on it starts drawing
more power but it's totally covered by
solar as you can see here and it's also
filling up the power walls with extra
solar as this happens so later in the
day when the Sun goes down that power
draw is also supplemented by the power
wall batteries there were a lot of
summer days like this on the absolute
best day in this time I think I
generated almost 300 kilowatt hours of
electricity but because of how much the
house is using from the AC to charging
the car every single day
frequently I'd use 200 plus kilowatt
hours of electricity during the day so
my net grid usage would typically in
these summer months be zero to slightly
negative maybe up to negative 50
kilowatt hours on a good day meaning I
would generate and sell back to the grid
50 kilowatt hours more than I used solid
so after summer there is the fall which
you know the days are starting to get a
little bit shorter but also notably the
temperatures drop off quite a bit so
getting less a little bit less Sun but
also using a lot less air conditioning
so here is a normal fall day in the
middle of October production day by day
is dropping down now here into the low
hundreds uh this is a day that I got
just over 120 kilowatt hours of solar
pretty Cloud free day again as you can
tell by the graph and again if you look
at the home usage there's even smaller
spikes and a smaller curve of air
conditioning during the day so The
house's needs are actually completely
covered by solar and then once the sun
goes down and the power wall takes over
it actually did not touch the Grid at
all which is pretty sick and this was
actually very common throughout the fall
turns out the fall and the spring are
the times where I generated the most
excess electricity with basically
everyday ending with net negative and
then
there is winter and it turns out uh
winter can be a well in the Northeast
areas especially brutal on these setups
for a couple of reasons like first of
all as far as solar these are the days
when we're getting the days are the
shortest like the sun sets at like 4 P.M
which is insane but that's real but it
also turns out that most of the days are
cloudy I didn't really realize this like
truly until I started looking through
all the graphs but it's like one out of
every 10 days is actually sunny and I
you know I know it's cold and everything
but I didn't realize how many days in
the winter are just cloud cover all day
so then also my homes uh I'm pointing
like you can see it my home's air
conditioning is electric but my heating
is natural gas so my natural gas bill is
just going up and there's nothing my
solar can do about it but on top of all
that you got to think about the car and
electric cars are far less efficient in
the winter when it's cold than any other
time of the year battery trees have a
certain temperature they like to be at
they like to operate at that temperature
so they spend more extra energy getting
up to and staying at that temperature so
a normal drive for me might take say 15
percent of the battery on a commute
during the summer that same Drive during
the winter will take 20 25 30 of the
battery driving the exact same way just
because it's so cold so that is a lot
more electrical energy so here's what
some typical days in the winter would
look like literally only generating 20
to 70 kilowatt hours of electricity in a
whole day like cloudy days would
literally only be a handful and then for
home use so I actually went through this
phase of like maybe I should charge my
car less often to be off the grid more I
was kind of playing around with that so
I would charge like every two to three
days but it honestly doesn't really
matter you can sort of see which days I
actually plug the car in and to be fair
the power wall handled it but it did
empty it out so the next day I'm pulling
from the grid until the sun comes up so
it was basically like a lot of days
around zero and then every time I had to
plug in the car to fill back up there
would be a huge dent just a huge
positive net you stay on the calendar so
I actually had positive net grid usage
months for all of November December and
January so I was pulling from the grid
more than I produced solar all of those
months but then sure enough when we get
to Spring things flip super fast it
turns out if you were to guess which
month I would generate the most solar or
the most excess solar what would you
think you'd probably guess like sometime
in the peak of the Summer with the
longest day June July
uh for me it was May
in May I used 6 500 kilowatt hours of
electricity but I generated nearly 8 500
kilowatt hours of electricity and I
didn't even realize this is another
thing you don't really know for real
until you look at the data and I'm
looking at the graphs and may had
basically every single day sunny during
that month I think I had one cloudy day
in May but June and July we do get a lot
more thunderstorms out here in the
Northeast and that actually does take a
real hit on total solar that's that's
cloud cover so they didn't generate
quite as much solar as May we're just
learning weather patterns out here
through graphs of solar generation uh
this is also around the same month that
I got the eight sleep so the eight sleep
is a pod cover that fits on a mattress
like a fitted sheet but it's temperature
controlled so it can heat and cool each
side of the bed independently they
reached out around May to be a sponsor
and I said yes so that's when I
installed it I wouldn't say it it
replaced the need for aircon positioning
it didn't but it did actually
legitimately decrease the total air
conditioning you need when the bed is
cooled off and the house doesn't have to
be as cool so when it literally cools
the bed before you get in stays cool the
whole night for optimal sleep and then
warms you up in the morning on autopilot
every single day which is sweet so now
that I know that air conditioning is the
number two draw of electricity in my
entire house and if you don't drive an
electric car it's probably your number
one draw then it's good to know that you
can you can do something like this and
obviously it'll take a lot less
electricity from the wall than air
conditioning would also if you're
curious I talked about this on dope Tech
but it's turned out to be pretty awesome
obviously sleuth is super important and
temperature is like top of the list for
Sleep Quality falling asleep faster
waking up less so investing in your
sleep makes a ton of sense on top of
maybe cutting into your AC use so if you
want to get a pod cover for yourself you
can actually use code MKBHD on their
site and get 200 off so I'll leave a
link in the description and next thing
into eight sleep before sponsoring the
video so it's time for the the big
summary I've had this solar setup for a
full year now all four seasons it's time
to run the numbers see if it was really
worth it and see if it's actually good
so let's start with the money question
here the this like I said was nowhere
near the cheapest possible option of
course going with solar panels and
batteries a lot of different possible
setups so my setup with the solar tiles
all the materials all of the labor
installation everything and the three
batteries everything together was one
hundred and twenty thousand nine hundred
forty eight dollars and four cents but
also as you can see there's a federal
tax credit down here of nearly thirty
thousand dollars bringing the total cost
to me down to right around ninety three
thousand dollars so the tax credit does
fluctuate quite a bit uh it's actually
gone up like a lot since I ordered like
a year and a half ago whatever it was uh
it's up to 30 now in New Jersey so it's
called the uh New Jersey solar
investment tax credit if I ordered today
it would have been 8 thousand dollars
more off
but you know it's fine it's fine
everything's fine I'm not mad it's fine
but the main question you typically see
with an investment like this is what is
the payoff period how long does it take
before that investment pays for itself
in saved electricity so that's a good
question and I had to do quite a bit of
math here because every bill is
different every week every month of
electricity costs different amounts
actually my provider literally has
different electricity rates every single
hour and there are different averages
per day per week per season but if I do
a sort of a sweeping average for each
month and how much electricity I've been
using the 54 megawatt hours of
electricity that I've used in the past
year would have cost about nine thousand
six hundred sixty dollars so again
that's a lot but obviously air
conditioning takes up a lot and a lot of
that is driving an electric car every
single day so of course my gas bill has
been zero dollars this whole time but
you know that's where it comes from so
if if you divide that out by the total
cost that I paid it comes out to just
under 10 years 9.6 years so if you if
you Google like what's a good payback
period for a solar setup the answer that
the AI pops up with is like six to ten
years which you know if I think about it
it makes sense obviously and that's
great because if the panels are
warranted for 25 years and you pay them
off in 10 years then they're just paying
you extra for the next 15 years however
long you're in that house which is great
so mine being on the longer end of that
am I mad at that not really I think
that's fine
um I also do know that there are a
couple of things that could that I could
that could have been different to make
that payback period shorter actually the
number one suggestion typically would be
like okay if you want to make the
payback period shorter get a less
expensive setup and that would make
sense but also you have to keep in mind
the coverage really matters here so I
could have gone with a much less
expensive actually a solar panel array
from Tesla on the same exact roof and
because of all the pitches on the roof
they estimated they could have put
panels down on certain parts and it
would have totaled a smaller 19 kilowatt
array instead of the 29 kilowatts of the
solar tiles I know that because that's
actually what I first signed up for an
estimate for as I was like juggling the
idea in my head would that have had a
shorter payback period or would that
have been offset by much less
electricity being produced and taking
longer to pay for itself I don't know
but the other part of that equation that
I'm thinking about now is just like I
should just use more electricity
so that it pays for itself faster I want
to get my values worth I am constantly
in net negative so I can afford to use
way more electricity and so I thought
maybe about switching
um you know various appliances that
aren't electric yet maybe even switching
heating to electrical so that may be in
my future but now for all the
miscellaneous weird quirks of having
this brand new piece of tech on top of
my house because believe me there are
quite a few so first of all on the uh
the zero dollar electricity bill
for the whole year that is real which is
pretty awesome but it's also interesting
that I was able to achieve the zero
dollar bill monthly but I also used
positive net grid energy for those three
months during the winter so you might be
wondering wait a second how does that
work and the answer is net metering
credits it turns out they roll over
month to month but then they get reset
once per year so meaning when it was
first activated and in the First full
month of August I produced more than I
used I ended the month with a credit of
the difference which was negative 255
kilowatt hours and it says that on the
bill so that means the next month even
if I used 255 kilowatt hours more than I
produce with solar I would still have a
zero dollar bill because I have that
credit to play with but month after
month after month during the summer and
then the fall I was building up more and
more negative credits so that by the
time we got to Winter those three months
in a row I was eating into the credit
but I didn't eat all of it so I didn't
get all the way back to zero so the bill
was still zero dollars every month so
then another fun thing uh power outages
I have had a few power outages uh since
getting the solar system installed most
of them just because of thunderstorms
and the grid going down for a bit I
didn't even notice which was pretty sick
I did not notice the lights didn't even
flicker I didn't actually know until I
got a notification on my phone from the
Tesla app saying hey just so you know
you're disconnected from the grid right
now but you're running off of solar and
or batteries right now so everything is
good and you've got you know x amount of
hours of backup left and it should get
you till the next morning when the sun
comes up again and there's even a storm
watch feature that will preemptively
make sure the power walls are full if it
knows the big storm is coming and
honestly there is a pretty sweet Peace
of Mind knowing for a fact that if I
don't charge the car the power walls
have more than enough to just use the
house like normal until the next morning
air conditioning appliances literally
whatever and it'll be fine and when the
sum comes out again it'll start powering
everything I could be completely off the
grid for days or weeks at a time if I
find somewhere else to charge the car
now another fun fact in the winter in
the Northeast you probably already know
we get snow and apparently the surface
of the solar tiles the solar roof uh
stays just above freezing just a little
bit warmer than a roof would which has
some interesting side effects most
notably when it snows a little bit uh
the snow simply hits the roof and melts
so it never actually accumulates on the
roof and then the solar can continue to
work I mean if it's cloudy you get a
little bit of solar but it keeps working
and then you're the only house that
doesn't have a white roof because
there's no no snow on it but when it
snows heavy like like a lot which it
does a few times what happens is it
snows a ton and it actually does
accumulate and then when it accumulates
the outside layer kind of insulates the
bottom and so the Bottom now has room to
get warm again and so it warms up and
creates a thin layer of water and then
the whole thing just slides off of the
roof like a sheet of ice like the whole
accumulated layer slides off on the
water so I didn't actually get videos of
this happening with my own roof but
there are some YouTube videos of this
happening on YouTube it's kind of crazy
literally the whole roof section slides
off in sheets and it actually lands in
piles around the house sometimes
blocking a door or a driveway it's not a
small deal it was a little bit
frightening the first time it happened
because I didn't realize what that loud
booming noise was I was like is there is
there thunder in the in a snowstorm
that's kind of weird but then I like see
it in the window like sliding off of the
roof which is crazy then it piles up
around the door and then then it I gotta
shovel it but then last but not least
the fun fact uh I lied to you all uh the
the zero that sounds silly the zero
dollar power bill
is actually kind of a lie because my
power company ruined it every month for
the past 12 months my electricity bill
has been
5.75
that's just because I have zeroed out
all the charges thanks to that metering
but they charge 575 every month
basically just to have an account
so
thanks guys so let's just to wrap
everything up here my one year
conclusion uh this is an awesome piece
of bleeding edge Tech you can tell it's
bleeding edge because it's still rapidly
evolving over time and it's still very
expensive so for early adopters like me
who are willing to take the plunge
willing to take that risk a little bit
it can be really awesome it kind of
reminds me of electric cars there are a
lot more affordable solar setups out
there that are making a meaningful
difference for a lot of people in a lot
of different situations all over the
world there's also much more massive
huge solar setups as well but I think we
can kind of all get behind a technology
making more sustainable energy more
useful more efficient and More Beautiful
over time I definitely learned a lot
with this process mostly in like how
much electricity certain things
specifically use but also how much
electricity a roof with solar panels on
it can collect in different times of
year different seasons and different
situations but I don't think honestly I
don't think I would change a thing I
don't think I would change anything in
what I did
I've been probably waiting like six
months to get a little more of a federal
tax credit but I'll hit one last thing
it was briefly mentioned in like a Tesla
earnings call I think it was that uh or
maybe Elon just said it randomly but
that Tesla vehicles in a year or two by
2025 would all support bi-directional
charging which would be amazing I don't
know that that's actually going to
happen but having the cars be able to
not just charge other cars but even
potentially serve as your House's backup
battery would be pretty incredible these
car batteries as we're learning are
already way bigger and can support way
more power output than any power wall
any home battery one model S battery is
equivalent to like seven or eight power
walls so who knows if Tesla actually
does or not but as of today with the
right box on the wall with the right
inverter the F-150 Lightning which has
an even bigger battery can actually be
your House's backup battery so I think
the number of EVS that support this
feature should only be slowly going up
but I think ideally there's a world in
the future where instead of needing like
a huge no the current thing needing a
big solar setup and all these fancy
batteries all you really need is a small
solar OA an inverter and your car
battery and you have of the ability to
be completely functional during any
extended power outage or any emergency
because we live in a world where there's
another news story every week about the
electrical grid being taxed and how
these heat waves are running people's
grids and air conditioners into the
ground and too much of it is causing
blackouts and literally actually deaths
so any strain that we can take off the
grid is a win and anything we can do to
operate on clean sustainable energy is a
win for everybody so thanks for watching
I'll hang out in the comments for a
while but feel free to subscribe if you
enjoyed videos like this and the amount
of work that goes into these videos on
any kind of bleeding edge Tech and stuff
like this in the future and let me know
what you're interested in seeing next in
the comments alright catch you guys in
the next one
foreign